README.md, before:

# Stata MCP Extension for VS Code and Cursor

[![VS Code Marketplace](https://img.shields.io/badge/VS%20Code-Marketplace-blue)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=DeepEcon.stata-mcp)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/hanlulong/stata-mcp)](https://github.com/hanlulong/stata-mcp/blob/main/LICENSE)

This extension provides Stata integration for Visual Studio Code and Cursor IDE using the Model Context Protocol (MCP). It allows you to:

- Run Stata commands directly from VS Code or Cursor
- Execute selections or entire .do files
- View Stata output in the editor in real-time
- Get AI assistant integration through the MCP protocol
- Experience enhanced AI coding in Cursor IDE with Stata context

## Features

- **Run Stata Commands**: Execute selections or entire .do files directly from your editor
- **Syntax Highlighting**: Full syntax support for Stata .do, .ado, .mata, and .doh files
- **AI Assistant Integration**: Contextual help and code suggestions via MCP
- **Cross-platform**: Works on Windows, macOS, and Linux
- **Automatic Stata Detection**: Automatically finds your Stata installation
- **Real-time Output**: See Stata results instantly in your editor

## Installation Options

### Option 1: VS Code Marketplace

Install this extension directly from the [VS Code Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=DeepEcon.stata-mcp).

```bash
code --install-extension DeepEcon.stata-mcp
```

Or:
1. Open VS Code
2. Go to Extensions view (Ctrl+Shift+X)
3. Search for "Stata MCP"
4. Click "Install"

### Option 2: Cursor Extension Store

For Cursor users:
```bash
cursor --install-extension DeepEcon.stata-mcp
```

Or:
1. Open Cursor
2. Go to Settings > Extensions > Browse Extensions
3. Search for "Stata MCP"
4. Click "Install"

### Option 3: Manual Installation

If you prefer to install manually:

1. Download the latest `.vsix` file from the [GitHub releases page](https://github.com/hanlulong/stata-mcp/releases)
2. For VS Code:
   - Open VS Code
   - Go to Extensions view
   - Click on "..." menu in the top-right
   - Select "Install from VSIX..."
   - Navigate to and select the downloaded .vsix file
3. For Cursor:
   - Run this command in a terminal: `cursor --install-extension path/to/stata-mcp-0.0.2.vsix`

## Cursor MCP Configuration

To enable AI integration with Stata in Cursor, you need to configure the MCP connection:

1. Create or edit the MCP configuration file:
   - On macOS/Linux: `~/.cursor/mcp.json`
   - On Windows: `%USERPROFILE%\.cursor\mcp.json`

2. Add the following configuration to your `mcp.json` file:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "stata-mcp": {
      "url": "http://localhost:4000/mcp",
      "transport": "sse"
    }
  }
}
```

3. If you already have other MCP configurations in the file, just add the "stata-mcp" section to your existing "mcpServers" object.

4. Save the file and restart Cursor

This configuration allows Cursor's AI to communicate with the Stata MCP server that starts automatically when you use the extension. When properly configured, the AI assistant can:
- Interact with your Stata sessions
- Execute Stata commands
- Understand your datasets and variables
- Provide more context-aware coding assistance
- Help with data analysis and visualizations

## Requirements

- Stata installed on your machine (Stata 14 or higher recommended)
- Python 3.11 or higher (automatically managed by the extension)

## Usage

1. Open a Stata .do file
2. Run commands using:
   - **Run Selection**: Select Stata code and press `Ctrl+Shift+Enter` (or `Cmd+Shift+Enter` on Mac)
   - **Run File**: Press `Ctrl+Shift+D` (or `Cmd+Shift+D` on Mac) to run the entire .do file
3. View output in the editor panel

## How It Works

The extension creates a local MCP server that connects your editor to Stata, enabling:

1. **Command Execution**: Run Stata commands and see results instantly
2. **Context Awareness**: AI assistants understand your Stata data and commands
3. **Enhanced Productivity**: Get intelligent code suggestions and documentation

## License

MIT

## Credits

Created by Lu Han
Published by DeepEcon

Commit message:

Add note about installation time in README

README.md, after:

# Stata MCP Extension for VS Code and Cursor

[![VS Code Marketplace](https://img.shields.io/badge/VS%20Code-Marketplace-blue)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=DeepEcon.stata-mcp)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/hanlulong/stata-mcp)](https://github.com/hanlulong/stata-mcp/blob/main/LICENSE)

This extension provides Stata integration for Visual Studio Code and Cursor IDE using the Model Context Protocol (MCP). It allows you to:

- Run Stata commands directly from VS Code or Cursor
- Execute selections or entire .do files
- View Stata output in the editor in real-time
- Get AI assistant integration through the MCP protocol
- Experience enhanced AI coding in Cursor IDE with Stata context

## Features

- **Run Stata Commands**: Execute selections or entire .do files directly from your editor
- **Syntax Highlighting**: Full syntax support for Stata .do, .ado, .mata, and .doh files
- **AI Assistant Integration**: Contextual help and code suggestions via MCP
- **Cross-platform**: Works on Windows, macOS, and Linux
- **Automatic Stata Detection**: Automatically finds your Stata installation
- **Real-time Output**: See Stata results instantly in your editor

## Installation Options

### Option 1: VS Code Marketplace

Install this extension directly from the [VS Code Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=DeepEcon.stata-mcp).

```bash
code --install-extension DeepEcon.stata-mcp
```

Or:
1. Open VS Code
2. Go to Extensions view (Ctrl+Shift+X)
3. Search for "Stata MCP"
4. Click "Install"

### Option 2: Cursor Extension Store

For Cursor users:
```bash
cursor --install-extension DeepEcon.stata-mcp
```

Or:
1. Open Cursor
2. Go to Settings > Extensions > Browse Extensions
3. Search for "Stata MCP"
4. Click "Install"

### Option 3: Manual Installation

If you prefer to install manually:

1. Download the latest `.vsix` file from the [GitHub releases page](https://github.com/hanlulong/stata-mcp/releases)
2. For VS Code:
   - Open VS Code
   - Go to Extensions view
   - Click on "..." menu in the top-right
   - Select "Install from VSIX..."
   - Navigate to and select the downloaded .vsix file
3. For Cursor:
   - Run this command in a terminal: `cursor --install-extension path/to/stata-mcp-0.0.2.vsix`

> **Note:** The first time the extension is installed or run may take some time as dependencies need to be added. Please be patient and wait for it to finish. This process should normally take less than 2 minutes.

## Cursor MCP Configuration

To enable AI integration with Stata in Cursor, you need to configure the MCP connection:

1. Create or edit the MCP configuration file:
   - On macOS/Linux: `~/.cursor/mcp.json`
   - On Windows: `%USERPROFILE%\.cursor\mcp.json`

2. Add the following configuration to your `mcp.json` file:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "stata-mcp": {
      "url": "http://localhost:4000/mcp",
      "transport": "sse"
    }
  }
}
```

3. If you already have other MCP configurations in the file, just add the "stata-mcp" section to your existing "mcpServers" object.

4. Save the file and restart Cursor

This configuration allows Cursor's AI to communicate with the Stata MCP server that starts automatically when you use the extension. When properly configured, the AI assistant can:
- Interact with your Stata sessions
- Execute Stata commands
- Understand your datasets and variables
- Provide more context-aware coding assistance
- Help with data analysis and visualizations

## Requirements

- Stata installed on your machine (Stata 14 or higher recommended)
- Python 3.11 or higher (automatically managed by the extension)

## Usage

1. Open a Stata .do file
2. Run commands using:
   - **Run Selection**: Select Stata code and press `Ctrl+Shift+Enter` (or `Cmd+Shift+Enter` on Mac)
   - **Run File**: Press `Ctrl+Shift+D` (or `Cmd+Shift+D` on Mac) to run the entire .do file
3. View output in the editor panel

## How It Works

The extension creates a local MCP server that connects your editor to Stata, enabling:

1. **Command Execution**: Run Stata commands and see results instantly
2. **Context Awareness**: AI assistants understand your Stata data and commands
3. **Enhanced Productivity**: Get intelligent code suggestions and documentation

## License

MIT

## Credits

Created by Lu Han
Published by DeepEcon
